Copyright (C) [2016] Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP

This package contains GPL packages that Aruba has included in its IAP8.3 A325
product. In accordance with GPL obligations the modified code has been
provided along with the GCC based toolchain and the Aruba build tools.

A directory called LICENSES has been provided to make available all of the
Copyright text for all of the gpl and non-gpl packages.

Please note that the individual GPL packages provided are not designed to be
built standalone. The build of the GPL packages is part of a system the has to
be run in a particular order and a top down build script has been provided.

The Aruba modified GPL packages require CentOS 6.8 as the operating system for
the build server. No other operating system or version of CentOS is supported.

To prepare for the building the Aruba modified GPL packages execute the
install-gpl.sh script which will untar the GPL tarfiles into a working directory
called "workspace."

To build the Aruba modified GPL packages change directory to the workspace
directory and invoke the makeall.sh script.

The opensource-non-gpl packages are provided without obligation. The non-GPL
packages are provided "as is" and can be built on the host by following the
instructions provided within each tarfile. It is assumed that the "user" has
knowledge of how to build Opensource packages in a Linux environment.

Note:
This release package is missing the commercial version of the wolfssl FIPS 3.6.8
release which is required to build a number of the GPL packages. There will be
build errors due to this missing wolfssl module.

To address the build errors the user will have to procure this package from
WolfSSL Inc. and install it into the build workspace.

Please contact WolfSSL for instructions on how to procure their commercial
version of the wolfssl FIPS 3.6.8 product.

Website: https://www.wolfssl.com/wolfSSL/Contact.html

Install the wolfssl module into the build workspace in a directory called
cyassl/wolfssl-3.6.8 as the build rules expect the find the module files in that
location.

